# DABs project demo

This project was generated by using Databricks Asset Bundle template.

## Getting started

1. Install the Databricks CLI from https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/cli/databricks-cli.html

2. Authenticate to your Databricks workspace, if you have not done so already:
    ```
    $ databricks configure
    ```

3. To deploy a development copy of this project, type:
    ```
    $ databricks bundle deploy --target dev
    ```
    (Note that "dev" is the default target, so the `--target` parameter
    is optional here.)

    This deploys everything that's defined for this project.
    For example, the default template would deploy a job called
    `[${bundle.target}] Awesome Spark Job` to your workspace.
    You can find that job by opening your workpace and clicking on **Workflows**.

4. Similarly, to deploy a production copy, type:
   ```
   $ databricks bundle deploy --target prod
   ```

   Note that the default job from the template has a schedule that runs every day
   (defined in resources/awesome_job.yml). The schedule
   is paused when deploying in development mode (see
   https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/deployment-modes.html).

5. To run a job or pipeline, use the "run" command:
   ```
   $ databricks bundle run
   ```

6. Optionally, install developer tools such as the Databricks extension for Visual Studio Code from
   https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext.html. Or read the "getting started" documentation for
   **Databricks Connect** for instructions on running the included Python code from a different IDE.

7. For documentation on the Databricks asset bundles format used
   for this project, and for CI/CD configuration, see
   https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/index.html.



##  This project can be adapted to work with any git provider. 

#### Note: The provided pipelines serve as base examples and will need to be customized to meet the specific requirements of your projects. 

## Pipeline examples:

- **Azure DevOps**:
   [Pipeline for Azure DevOps](./pipeline_example_by_provider/azure-pipelines.yml)

- **BitBucket**:
   [Pipeline for BitBucket](./pipeline_example_by_provider/bitbucket-pipelines.yml)

- **Github Actions**:
   [Pipeline Github](./pipeline_example_by_provider/github-actions.yml)

- **Gitlab**:
   [Pipeline for Gitlab](./pipeline_example_by_provider/gitlab-ci.yml)

- **Jenkins**:
   - [Pipeline for Jenkins (Pipeline Version)](./pipeline_example_by_provider/jenkins/Jenkinsfile)
   - [Pipeline for Jenkins (Freestyle Version)](./pipeline_example_by_provider/jenkins/jenkins_deploy.sh)

   **Note**: The Jenkins agent (also known as a node) must be properly configured with the necessary tools and libraries installed to execute the pipeline. This includes, but is not limited to, Databricks CLI, Python, and other dependencies required by your pipeline. [Configure a node in Jenkins](https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/27/run-jenkins-agent-as-a-service/#create-a-new-node-in-jenkins)